docs(clp-package): Add dedicated guide for using CLP with S3-compatible storage, including details about writing archives. (#1905)
y-scope/clp: docs/src/user-docs/guides-using-object-storage/aws-s3/index.md

# AWS S3

This guide explains how to configure and use CLP with AWS S3. Note that you can choose
to use object storage for any combination of the three use cases (e.g., compress logs from AWS S3
and cache the stream files on AWS S3, but store archives on the local filesystem).

:::{note}
Currently, only [clp-json][release-choices] supports object storage. Support for `clp-text` will be
added in a future release.
:::

:::{note}
This guide focuses on AWS S3. For S3-compatible storage services (e.g., MinIO, Ceph), see the
[S3-compatible storage guide](../s3-compatible-storage.md).
:::

:::{tip}
If you're using object storage because the host(s) on which you're running CLP are ephemeral,
consider also using [external databases](../../guides-external-database.md) for metadata storage (to
ensure data persistence in case of host replacements).
:::

## Prerequisites

1. This guide assumes you're able to configure, start, stop, and use CLP as described in the
   [clp-json quick-start guide](../../quick-start/clp-json.md).
2. An S3 bucket and [key prefix][aws-key-prefixes] containing the logs you wish to compress.
3. An S3 bucket and key prefix where you wish to store compressed archives.

> 4. An S3 bucket and key prefix where you wish to cache stream files.

Reviewer: above we said "any combination of the three use cases"

how about:
```
Depending on which use cases you need, one or more of the following:
...
```

Reviewer: i still think we should remind (new) users not all are necessary

* [IAM Identity Center authentication][aws-iam-identity-center]
* [Assuming an IAM role][aws-iam-roles]
* Long-term IAM user credentials

Follow [this guide][aws-configure-profiles] for more information on configuring profiles with the
AWS CLI.

:::{note}
Profile configurations are stored in your AWS config directory (typically `~/.aws`).
:::

#### Environment variables for long-term credentials

clp-json can authenticate using [long-term IAM user credentials](#long-term-iam-user-credentials)
specified through the environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.

#### EC2 instance IAM roles

clp-json can authenticate using IAM roles attached to an EC2 instance (that CLP is hosted on).

Follow [this guide][aws-ec2-attach-iam-role] to attach an IAM role to an instance.

## Configuration

The subsections below explain how to configure your object storage bucket and CLP for each use case:

::::{grid} 1 1 1 1
:gutter: 2

:::{grid-item-card}
:link: aws-s3-config
Configuring AWS S3
^^^
Configuring your object storage bucket and IAM permissions for each use case.
:::

:::{grid-item-card}
:link: clp-config
Configuring CLP
^^^

> Configuring CLP to use object storage for each use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring CLP to use AWS S3 for each use case.
```
